---
layout: post
title: Mapping the Digital Terrain 
---

Having been hanging around the technology and data space for a few years now, I've noticed something: we almost always speak only of the future. With our new digital initiative, your bus will arrive on time, your payments will be processed more quickly, and hot food will be just a delivery app tap away. I read the news and feel like I'm being pulled forward by a very big magnet. There is a tweet about the latest machine learning algorithm, an article about the newest step towards general artificial intelligence, a blogpost about the the latest app, software upgrade or hottest new start-up. We are, it seems, being pulled at warp speed towards a promised utopia.

And this is a concern. It's a concern because this approach ignores the need to take a good, hard look at the past before we can reliably talk about the future. The past matters. For example, because many Chinese skipped owning a clunky desktop computer and went straight to owning a smartphone, you can now order a pedicure, get your car washed and do laundry all through mobile payments in China. In contrast, in the United States, personal computers came before the smartphone, and hence the transition to mobile hasn't been so direct. Real understanding the current 'mobile revolution' that everyone is talking about can't happen unless we look at the undercurrents of history. 

This is something I'd like to explore in future posts, but it's not the only question I have. Past and future aside, I'm also curious about the present - our current reality. Technology promises a better and more equal future, but we won't get there unless we bridge the gap between where we are and where we want to get to. On one hand, cloud platforms mean digitisation, online product development, and machine learning are more accessible than ever. Yet, at least in my experience, we often jump into the deep and tangled machine learning deep end without first considering basic questions. For example, what exactly is data? What forms can it take, where does it live and what can we do with it? Machine learning MOOCs are incredible for learning, but my progress as a practitioner didn't get moving until I started considering these basic questions, because these basic questions address the wider ecosystem that tech and data live in. Knowing how data fits into this ecosystem, whether in a business, third sector or government context, is where value comes from (of course, I'm by no means done and still have tons to learn). 

So, lots to research, and lots to think about. The field is wide open, and its exciting. 
