# recap of the bigger picture: 

- in week 0 we got introduced to the fundamentals of how to structure a project so that it's reproducible. we learnt about tools like make to track dependencies between files, Git for tracking changes to our code and also how to use a project folder template to abstract away having to design a project template for every project. while arranging folders and naming files may seem mundane, they are skills that, if implemented right, frees us to concentrate on analysis instead of spending time crafting a custom system through trial and error. 
- in week 1 we looked at cookie cutter data science in more detail. at this point some people delved deeper into how to use make as a tool. during our weekly roundup, we went a step further to look at how to package an analysis into a compelling story. sourcing for data, Hans Rosling, FiveThirtyEight, Alberto Cairo and were some sources we looked at 
 
# week 2's mission builds on week 1's mission

this week was inspired a lot by the open-source book The Practice of Reproducible Research https://legacy.gitbook.com/book/bids/the-practice-of-reproducible-research/details the book's authors interview scientists, asking the researchers to define what reproducibility means, how they practice reproducibility in their work and what tools they use. the book is useful for a couple of reasons: it shows that reproducibility is a sliding scale instead of a yes/no concept: each data worker has to define a practice on the scale that fits their personal needs. it shows that analysis is often not only one input/output process. rather, the output of one analysis often becomes the input of another. together, these inputs and outputs form a pipeline who's end result is a published paper or new tool to be shared with the world. 

this resource has a slightly different take on reproducibility compared to the cookie cutter project in week 1. while cookie cutter data science suggests "being conservative about changing the default folder structure" https://legacy.gitbook.com/book/bids/the-practice-of-reproducible-research/details. one of the messages behind The Practice of Reproducible Research is just how many approaches are possible. hence we have come at reproducibility from two angles, each different. hopefully, with time, our ML engineers, trained also as designers, will be able to balance the need for opinionated processes with allowing the freedom to experiment.  

# during our weekly roundup

this week we wanted to concentrate on two fundamental skills : how to count and how to measure. just like arranging folders and naming files, these are skills that seem mundane. however, they can be tricky to get right. seeing the subtleties of involved in counting and measuring, i thought, could best be done by analysing examples. 

## 1. how to count 
- estimate how many sweets there are in a bag of M&M's
- this is a classic example used to show students of statistics several fundamental concepts
- include a confidence interval in your estimate (every sample has some variability) 
- include a visualisation also of how balanced the classes are 
- how you sample and how much you sample should be noted. If, later on in the analysis, 


## 2. how to measure 
Our examples for this concept came from the podcast More or Less, produced by Tim Harford and the BBC. Tim Harford was one of the first people who introduced me to to being more literate about statistics and also to layman economics. His podcast is a great deep dive into the numbers behind the news, and how they may or may not be an accurate quantification of the world. 

[Fact-checking Trump on trade](https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p061cv86)
this is an introduction into how metrics like a trade deficit may miss out on capturing important information. this is quite a clear cut example to start with. 

[Were 'extra' votes counted in Russia's presidential election?](https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p0623rb8)
I like this example because it illustrates several realities of the data analysis process: 
- rather than scraping data off a website like some of us armchair investigators, the investigators actually physically went to the polling stations, got out their counters 

careful thinking about how to count and how to measure brings a few benefits. mainly, they guard against several downstream problems in data analysis. Of these, the most prevalent I feel is: the data collected doesn't convincingly argue for or against a hypothesis. data collection from social media, for example, may not be granular enough to answer questions about public sentiment. in another instance, information from census data does not give an accurate picture of citizen's consumption behaviour or family habits. 

## 3. how to measure meaningfully 

this exercise comes from Joe Edelman's blogpost ["Is Anything Worth Maximising?"](https://medium.com/what-to-build/is-anything-worth-maximizing-d11e648eb56f). Joe Edelman is part of the [Time Well Spent movement](http://humanetech.com) that pushes for tech to maximise more meaningful human experiences. my favourite example comes from couch surfing. rather than maximising number of people met (like one would on tinder) Joe Edelman helped design for ["number good times spent between strangers"](https://github.com/jxe/jxe.github.com/tree/master/csmetrics). having made some of the most meaningful connections through couch surfing myself, this example was very personally poignant for me.  

I must say I had a few doubts about trying out this exercise. as a concept, engineering for "meaning" can be uncomfortably wishy-washy. Other metrics like application latency and linear regression R-squared values are so much more concrete. in the end, however, i still included the exercise because it analysed an example we encounter everyday - youtube. youtube measures user engagement with number of sales, clicks and views, which are easy to measure but inadvertently also lead to optimising for addictive behaviour. what joe edelman asks is whether or not we can design metrics that optimised for more meaningful behaviour. examples include using youtube to learn a new skill like playing the ukulele, or watching a video over dinner with friends for the shared laughs and good times. 

perhaps this is an idea that has come before it's time, but [maybe not](https://www.theverge.com/2018/1/17/16903844/time-well-spent-facebook-tristan-harris-mark-zuckerberg) 
